Ecoli = "Eschericia coli is a gram-negative rod-shaped bacterium commonly found in the lower intestinal tract of warm-blooded organisms. Most are harmless and exist mutually with their human hosts, but some can cause severe disease. These disease-causing strains contain accessory genes that allow them to evade their host's immune system while attacking it with toxic proteins. These strains can also compete against other bacteria - indeed, your winning strain may have used these to out-compete its opponent!"

Mtub = "Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a gram-negative rod-shaped pathogenic bacterium responsible for the disease tuberculosis. This species is unique because of the waxy coating on its surface that makes it impervious to some important host defenses. It requires a lot of oxygen for growth--which explains

Kpneumoniae = "'Klebsiella pneumoniae' is a Gram-negaive, non-motile bacterium. It ferments lactose and, under certain conditions, can survive in anaerobic environments. It is part of the normal fora of humans in the mouth, skin and intestines, but can cause destructive infections if it gets to invade alveoli. In nature, it is found in the soil and can fix nitrogen, helping the environment."

Pfluorescens = "‘Pseudomonas fluorescens’ is a common Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium. It has multiple flagella and can be found in soil and water. It is an obligate aerobe, but certain strains are capable of using nitrate instead of oxygen. It is a little picky regarding temperature, since it only grows from 25-30C. Finally, P.fluorescens produces a mupirocin antibiotic that is currently used in creams."

Vneptunius = "‘Vibrio neptunius’ is an inhabitant of mollusk microbiota and an opportunistic pathogen causing disease outbreaks in marine mollusc species. Vibrios are part of the resident microbiota of bivalves as they persist in the hemolymph of these molluscs. This helps the host to promote nutrition and have defense immune mechanisms. Nonetheless, under unfavorable conditions, V.neptunius can create a disease outbreak."
